Friends here our concept is executing multiple commands on multiple servers.
So first we will implement this concept on password authentication environment offer
that will exclude same concept on password less authentication and environment as well.
Let me open my terminal.
Suppose here I have some list of remote servers.
Now let me execute some commands on the remote server one.
Then how we can execute a command on your remote server, simply SSH.
Then you can provide your option called hyphen bull with strict host KEY
checking equals to know then what is the user on your remote server?
Automation? Suppose then let me provide the password.
I'm in IP of that remote server.
Then space, let's say date command.
Now it is asking password,
but I don't want to provide my password of the running
my SSH command because I need to automate through Shell script.
That's why it's better to use.
She passed.
Now simply, you can pass your password in your password authentication in Iran, men,
for your SSH, using SSH pass,
SSH pass hyphen p password.
But providing password in your command itself is not a good practice that way,
what we will do is we can store our password in your file.
That file may be anything,
and it may be in any location.
The only thing you have to provide the file complete path.
But as of now, uh, how my password off my remote server in these past file,
and this file is the error in the current location.
That's why I'm not giving complete path.
Then now run this and see the result.
Yes, you are getting the output for your date command, not only for that,
let me run one more command and let me run some RAM usage.
Yes, you are getting your output.
Now my requirement is I want to execute these three commands on my remote server 1 first.
So let me copy these three commands.
So simply open a shell script called run multiple commands on multiple,
or worse dot SH.
So first I'm implementing just to run your multiple commands on one remote server.
Say let me paste the commands.
Just let me rearrange all this things.
Now, if I run,
this is going to output for these three commands.
But for each and every output, I need to identify that.
For that just simply I am writing echo command,
the date command output on on the server.
So whatever server you are using,
that's our IPA one display here.
Then let me copy this IP.
That's it.
Now, same command, I mean,
same Jaco I want to display for each and every command output then.
So instead of now date,
this is simply uptime.
See why I am writing this means you need to simplify
this instead of writing these many times.
So to understand that you have to know first of all, step-by-step.
Now, here we are running free hyphen yum command.
Now let me save it. And I'm running.
Let me provide the execution permission for this.
Now, run that cell script.
Yes, you are getting you output the free iPhone am combined output,
the date command output.
Even if you want to get a clarity here.
I mean, so here what I will do is
after getting the outward simply I am writing a cool just for differentiation purpose.
No, let me provide at last as well.
No, let me save it and run it once again,
see that you are getting your output.
But if you observe your core,
you are repeating same logic again and again.
The only thing is command is different,
but over the command you are passing that command is different.
Buddy or repeating same logic.
See even Jaco is also same.
The only thing here command is different.
That's why what I will do is I am modifying our script.
Let me come at this code as of now, these very simple,
very straight forward you are implementing,
you were three commands on your remote server.
But instead of that,
whenever if you are repeating the same lines again and again at the time,
you can go with the loop or loops.
And one of the loop as of now we know only for loop.
Now I'm implementing this with four loop.
See what I'm doing is for each command,
in so many commands we have date, uptime.
And one more thing is free, hyphen him.
But if I take in this way, freeze one command,
hyphen Amy's one more command,
but that entire thing is a one command that you heard mentioned in quotations.
Then do undone. So between that,
whatever the Yoko you are displaying at very first,
let me copy it and paste it.
But here command is not fixed.
For each iteration the command should be change.
That's why I am writing in terms of each command variable.
That's it. Then SSH a pass.
So let me take this entire command.
But here command is not as tight command.
I mean, our command is there in a variable called each command that check after that.
Let's you see that now we are writing only one time,
these three lines, but we are repeating those three lines for these many number of times.
First, second, third.
But while executing first-time automatically,
the, each command is date command.
Second time, uptime, thought I'm free iPhone him.
Now let me save it and run it.
See the output. You are getting your output 43 times 43 commands.
And as of note, these concept,
we are working on only one server,
but we have two servers in our hands.
Right. Now what I will do is I will, yeah,
let me open a script and there I will discuss or run C.
This is for one server.
If you have two servers, same logic you have to repeat for two times.
If you are three servers, same logic,
you have to repeat for three times.
That means you have to write this logic inside of one more for loop.
See, what I'm doing is for each server,
you can take any variable I am taking each server in.
Let me take the one server.
Then you have one more server, right.
First server space, second server, then do.
And between that do and done,
you have to write your logic c.
Now the meaningful disease,
you are repeating this logic.
Three commands for on one server,
but I wonder repeat 42 times because I have two servers in my hand.
That's why I just write this in one inside of one more for loop.
And this for loop will repeat first-time for this,
our second time for the server.
Now while executing first time,
the server is storing in a variable called each server.
That's why wherever server IPs,
they're just replaced that dollar each server.
That's it. Now see.
But here, wherever you are,
IP is there no, I don't want to fix it.
Automatically.
It has to pick server by server.
That's why dollar each server.
That's very simple.
So this is the way how we can exclude
your command or commands on multiple servers with the help of your for loop.
And while executing first-time automatically server is this 1,
second time this one.
So if you want to get the information before starting your inside of inside,
I mean, for loop,
second for loop, you can read here something like.
So I'm giving some spaces just for looking purpose, ACO,
executing commands on each server.
Now let me provide some spaces so that it is good for looking purpose.
Now by seeing these spaces,
you can understand that this is the main loop for loop.
And inside of a for loop you have one more for loop.
This for loop will repeat three times.
And this for loop will repeat two times while executing first loop first time.
The same for loop will repeat three times by taking
these three commands and days those three commands will execute on your first server.
Second time, second server seems commands will execute, that's it.
Now let me save it and run it.
Say output, executing command on commands,
on executing commands on it.
Even if you want to get more differentiation
in the output and just write some code somewhere,
suppose here I am writing echo.
That's it.
Just for your understanding,
you are writing that equal.
So by seeing this information,
you can understand that this is for first server and this is four seconds and that's it.
So this is the way how we can execute multiple commands on multiple servers.
And if you observe here as of no,
you are running your commands using password.
And your password is there in this file.
Now, I don't want to use this password.
I mean, I want to execute this script on password lesser than dedication.
And you don't meant first, let me do one thing.
I will copy this entire code.
Be clear, if your environment is possible,
less authentication, then you no need of using SSH pass.
First, let me create password less authentication.
So if you want to create a password lessons indication on your local server,
you have to generate SSH keys first.
Let me generate as such keys simply without navigating into dot SSH.
Also you can see let me come out from that.
Removed, not SSH.
Now we don't have a directory called dot SSH.
We don't have dot SSH.
Right?
Now what I will do is simply I will run SSH hyphen Qi Jin,
so that it will generate keys,
just enter four times so that it will create keys for your environment.
Now on your local server, Node.js,
such that it has been created and inside that you how private key and public key.
Now you have to share this public key with your remote servers.
So our remote servers are there here.
Now let me navigate into dot SSH.
Now here we have our keys.
Now let me share our key with the first server.
So simply SSH hyphen, copy ID.
What is the user on your remote server, then that IP.
So it is asking yes,
because you're running, this is at very first time.
Now you have to provide password automation 1-2-3.
Now your key has been exchanged with your first server.
Same way, let me exchange our key with second server as well.
So once if you exceed your keys with remote servers,
After that, you don't need to use password directly.
You can run without a password.
Now come out. So these are the servers right?
Now.
Let me open up a shell script.
So wherever as such paths iPhone,
you have passes there.
Let me remove that.
Otherwise, I will do one thing. I will comment this line below that.
I will write a line for password authentic possible lesser than negation environment.
That's it.
If you are working on possible less authentication environment,
then don't use SHE pass iPhone you have pass.
If you're working on password authentication environment,
then only just to provide password for your SSH automatically while running your command,
we are using SSH pass,
that's it. Now let me save it.
Now see something wrong.
Okay. Let me open it and check it.
Yeah.
At the end I misheard quotation.
You are getting now hearing no need of
any password because just now we extended our teas with remote servers.
But Syntax is same though.
I mean, how we are implementing your shell script that is same.
Except this average pass iPhone you have passed.
Remaining syntax is saying, right, fine.
And one more thing. As of no,
you have to servers, remote servers.
Suppose in future you are having some ten servers,
then you have to add eight servers, IPs here.
But that is not a good practice.
Instead of that, what we will do is we will store all these IPs in your file.
So as of now, we already stored our IB1, this file.
Now, what I will do is I will read that file with the help of a cat command.
Now c. Now this is your final script.
To execute your multiple commands on multiple servers.
Simply write it dollar,
because this is a command,
command output we are substituting for your for loop.
Now save it. Now running.
Suppose I want to work with only one server,
then what I will do is I will remove one of the IP from this.
Let me remove second IP.
Know automatically use QP will work now with only one server. Now see the result.
It is not working on second-order because in your list of servers,
we remove the second IP, right?
So this is the way how we can execute multiple commands on multiple servers.
Okay, thank you.